The Project Gutenberg eBook of Reverse English, by John S. Carroll

This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and
most other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no restrictions
whatsoever. You may copy it, give it away or re-use it under the terms
of the Project Gutenberg License included with this eBook or online at
www.gutenberg.org. If you are not located in the United States, you
will have to check the laws of the country where you are located before
using this eBook.

Title: Reverse English

Author: John S. Carroll

Release Date: January 5, 2023 [eBook #69713]

Language: English

Produced by: Greg Weeks, Mary Meehan and the Online Distributed
             Proofreading Team at http://www.pgdp.net

*** START OF THE PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK REVERSE ENGLISH ***





                            HSILGNE ESREVER

                          By JOHN S. CARROLL

           [Transcriber's Note: This etext was produced from
                Thrilling Wonder Stories October 1948.
         Extensive research did not uncover any evidence that
         the U.S. copyright on this publication was renewed.]


Me, I'm just a radio mechanic. No genius, that is. But handy with a
soldering iron. If it's genius you want, take my friend Bill Marra.
He's a communications engineer--telephone, radio, or what have you.
He's invented enough gimmicks so he doesn't have to work any more, just
potters around his basement inventing more gimmicks.

Thinking them up, actually, is all he does. Give him a screwdriver and
a pair of pliers and he can wreck anything in five minutes. That's
where I come in. He thinks 'em up, I build 'em. He busts 'em, I fix
'em. And when he gets into a jam, I'm the guy comes to bail him out.
Like, for instance, this last gadget of his. Nothing dangerous about
it, but it could have got him sunk in the river with his feet in a
block of cement. It all started with an amplifier.

I found the diagram in the mail when I came into the shop one morning.
Looked like an ordinary audio amplifier at first sight, and I started
laying out a chassis. Picking out parts, I noticed something; even Bill
can make a mistake sometimes. But I don't stick my neck out any more,
so I got him on the phone.

"About this amplifier of yours," I started.

"Well, what about it?" he yapped. "Never seen one before?"

"Look, bub. I've built hundreds of 'em. If I hadn't I'd 'a built yours
like you drew it here, and you'd been stuck with it."

"Stuck with what?"

"OK. Look at your coupling condensers. Maybe it's just a misprint,
or you wrote mmf where you meant mfd. But if you use condensers that
small, it might work but you'd never hear a sound out of it. Low
frequency cut-off way above the audible limit."

"Gives you an 'A' for effort anyway. Keep punching. And build it the
way I drew it. And stop worrying."

Well, now, what do you do with a guy like that? I built it. Had to test
it with a scope to find out if anything got through it. Couldn't hear a
sound. When I delivered it, he just grunted.

"Mind letting me in on the secret?" I asked. "Now you've got an outfit
that will amplify sounds you can't hear, who's going to listen to it?"

He just tossed me a couple of sketches. "That's the output section,"
he explained. "We'll connect it to the vertical sweep of a cathode ray
tube. The rest of the circuit is an automatic time base, so you get
standing wave patterns at any frequency."

"OK with me. But what're you going to feed into it?"

"Uh-uh, almost forgot. Midget condenser mike. Through a high-pass
filter, cut-off at 12,000."

Well, I still don't know any more than I did at the beginning, but what
the devil--I get paid for it even if it doesn't work.

       *       *       *       *       *

Couple of weeks after I finished the outfit, I was still wondering. So
I dropped in on his basement lab one night. He had the rig set up and
working. The microphone was on the floor. Bill's dog, a nondescript
pooch named Meginnis, was tied up in front of it. Bill was stroking
him, petting him, annoying him. And as far as I could see, nothing
whatever was happening. The amplifier was running, the 'scope tube was
lit, showing a nice steady base-line and nothing else.

"Maybe your mike's no good," I said helpfully.

"It's OK," he muttered. "Look."

He picked up a little silver whistle and blew it. No sound came out
that I could hear, but the dog jumped as if he were shot, and a nice
pattern of standing waves showed up on the 'scope.

[Illustration: He picked up a little whistle and blew it. No sound came
out that I could hear, but the dog jumped.]

"Dog whistle," explained Bill. "You can't hear it and I can't hear it.
Too high frequency. But he can hear it. See?"

"All right, I've got one of those whistles for my dog too. What's that
got to do with the price of yams in Patagonia?"

"Here's how I figure it. Dogs can hear supersonic frequencies. Maybe
they talk to each other that way. So far, no dice."

Well, now, there it is. The guy's got forty-seven patents, three
degrees, and an honorary Sc.D. Maybe it's just overwork. But it
certainly sounds like he's chipped his crock. Talking dogs! I'm going
to suggest a nice long rest when he hops out of his chair and beats it.
Nothing to do but relax, and see what's next.

He's back in about five minutes with a big yellow tom-cat, unties the
dog and chases him. The cat's fur lies down again, and he starts to
prowl around, looking at objects with typical cat-curiosity. He rubs
his nose against the microphone, sniffs and looks around. Bill is
watching the cat with considerable interest. So am I.

The cat looks at us again, at the 'scope, and at the microphone. He
walks around once, shakes his head, walks over to the microphone again
and puts his nose near it. I don't hear anything, and Bill doesn't
either, I don't think, but a big, beautiful pattern appears on the
'scope. It is followed by a string of shorter, irregular peaks, and
stops as the cat turns to face us.

I look at Bill, and he looks at me. Then we both look at the cat.

"I always knew that dog was a dope," Bill mutters. "Any alley cat in
town is Einstein by comparison."

I could swear that cat nodded his head at the remark. Anyway, he had
a self-satisfied expression, which for a cat, is almost a normal look
anyway. Another row of peaks appeared on the scope screen. Bill's eyes
bugged a little.

"You know," he said a little tensely. "I think that alley-rabbit
actually understands what we're saying."

The cat looked a little annoyed at that. A short wave train appeared on
the screen, then a long one, then two short ones. Like -- ---- -- --

I couldn't get over the feeling that the cat had just said, "Of course
I do!"

Bill must've felt the same way. He was excited by now. "Shrimps and
sweet cream for you, Tommy!" he shouted at the cat. Turning to me, he
exulted, "Now I've got a real idea! Look, Mike!"

He grabbed a scratch pad and started drawing a new schematic.
"See? We'll take the output of the amplifier and run it through a
mixer-oscillator stage. That way, we can get a beat between a fixed
frequency and the supersonic output of the amplifier. The beat should
be in the audible range and we will be able to hear it; we won't need
the 'scope. I want to hear what the cat is saying."

I started to open my mouth. I closed it. Then I opened it again. I
spoke to the cat. "Say meow to the gentlemen, Tommy."

I had it coming to me. The cat looked me straight in the eye, emitted a
raucous sound, something between "_miahhhh!_" and "_pfffft!_"
and turned away.

Ever had a cat give you a Bronx cheer? I left.

There was no particular trick to building the new gimmick; just a
question of the right coils. I'm no genius by any means, but I can
calculate an L/C ratio. I delivered it and tried to forget the whole
thing.

But I've got as much curiosity as the next guy. So I didn't wait more
than a week. Down in the basement, Bill's sitting there, having words
with the cat. Bill's talking directly to the cat; the cat's replies
are coming out of the loudspeaker on my new set-up. The cat's talking
something that sounds like Hindustani. I stood it for a while and it
got too much for me.

"How come?" I popped. "He understands English, seems like. Why doesn't
he speak it?"

The cat looks at me and says, "_Miahhhh-pffft!_"

Bill says, "I could ask you the same question. Remind me to do it
sometime. Meanwhile, he is speaking English. That's what it sounds like
to him when I speak it. His hearing apparatus is different, that's all."

"Now wait a minute!" I squawked. "Gullible, that's me. But I still
don't believe that a cat speaks English."

"You've heard of Pig-Latin, haven't you?" said Bill mildly. "Why not
Cat-English?"

"Ask a foolish question, get a foolish answer," I replied. "You ought
to be writing radio scripts. With jokes like that, even Milton Berle
couldn't get his option picked up."

"Don't be so damned superior," Bill growled. "The beast has never heard
any other language, he's lived here all his life. Why shouldn't he
speak English? Cat-fashion, anyway."

The cat moved his nose to the mike and some assorted sounds came out of
the speaker. Sounded like Esperanto, this time. Bill nodded.

"He agrees with me," he said smugly.

I gave up. I took my fedora, jammed it down on top of my noggin and
started to leave. Bill snapped off the amplifier switch, motioned me
to wait, and started to feed the cat. When he got through serving
lunch, he came over to me and said, "Build me another one. Portable,
battery-operated, this time. I've got more ideas. Cats can't be the
only animals smart enough to talk."

The cat looked up from his dinner and made a face. Luckily the
amplifier was turned off, so I missed his parting shot. I beat it.

       *       *       *       *       *

Business was slow for the next few weeks. Maybe they're making radios
better now, but I didn't have much repair business. And I hadn't heard
from Bill since delivering his new battery-operated portable what-is-it.

So I told my kid assistant to mind the shop for the P.M. and I went out
to the track. Two bucks of my dough on any horse's nose will raise his
wind-resistance to the point where he can't win a race, but what the
devil. It keeps me out in the open air.

Anyway, I prowled around the stables a bit. I know these one-horsepower
oat motors are obsolete, but I like 'em. Times I think the world was a
better place to live when old Dobbin was vice-president in charge of
transportation.

There's a little gathering around one stall and I decide to look into
matters. Middle of the group is Bill Marra, and he is tinkering with
the portable gimmick. He's having words with a horse, and the horse
seems to be holding up his end of the conversation pretty well. I
suppose the language was Horse-English but it sounded like Lithuanian
to me. Bill seemed to understand it though, and he was translating for
the group.

General idea seems to be, this bunch of touts wants to know if the
horse is going to win his race. The horse keeps insisting it's a
foolish question, and anyway, why not ask the jockey who's going to
ride him; far as the race is concerned, the jock's the boss, and the
horse does as he's told.

Since this is what every racetrack tout is always telling you, you'd
think they'd agree with him. Seems like they don't really believe it,
though, not even when they get it right from the horse's mouth.

Meanwhile, the nag gets tired of this foolishness and clams up. Bill
turns and says, "Look, boys. He's told you all he intends to. He thinks
all this is silly."

One of the touts is stubborn. "He's gotta know if he can win or not.
He's runnin' the race, ain't he? He musta spoke to the other horses."

"Maybe," says Bill. "But he doesn't want to talk, and I don't know any
way to make him."

Some disgusted sounds come out of the loudspeaker. Sounds like Swahili
this time. Bill listens. "O.K. He says he doesn't figure to more than
show. His feet hurt."

The group breaks up like magic. They all beat it for the two-dollar
show window. Bill tells the horse he's sorry to have bothered him.
Considerate guy, Bill. Out of the corner of my eye, I see one big guy
looking at us, curiously. He's wearing a sharp suit and a tie with the
Aurora Borealis embroidered in purple and green on a gold background. I
make it all about five hundred dollars on the hoof. Looks familiar too,
but I can't place him.

We walk over to the track and I spend the next hour cheering my horses
into last place. My luck is running as usual. Fifth race comes along,
and I see the horse Bill's been talking to; he's right on the rail. I
figure this'll be worth watching.

The start is a good one, and this nag--his name is Roll Merrily--is two
lengths ahead at the quarter. He's running easy and doesn't seem to
have any competition; the boy hasn't touched the whip to him yet.

At the half, things are pretty much the same. At the three-quarter
pole, the field is spread out a bit, but Merrily still leads by more
than a length. I begin to wonder what those touts will do to Bill for
making them play an easy winner for show money.

Just as they come into the stretch, I can see a little break in
Merrily's stride. So help me, he's running like a dame in tight shoes.
He drops back, a little at a time. Hendy, who's riding him, looks a bit
startled and applies the whip, but it's no dice. Two of the others
pass him, and at the finish, it's Roll Merrily, third, just like he
said he would.

Bill looks up as if he's just finished balancing his check book and
says, "That's what he said."

He starts to walk away, as if the experiment was finished and he'd
found out all he wanted to know. The big guy who was watching over at
the stable walks up to him.

"I've got a job for you," he says.

"Don't need a job," says Bill. "Retired five years ago."

"Yeah," I put in. "He doesn't have to work any more."

"Shut up, punk," says the big guy to me. He turns to Bill. "When Lucky
Mariano offers you a job, you take it, see?"

Bill looks worried. He hands me the portable and says, "Take this home.
I'll see you later."

"Unh-unh," grunts Mariano. "I'm hiring you _and_ that gadget.
Bring it along. And chase that lug."

Well, nothing I could do. So I beat it.

       *       *       *       *       *

After a few days, I got worried. I hadn't heard from Bill, and neither
had his housekeeper. She didn't figure anything wrong; he often went
away without telling her anything. But I knew better. I went to the
cops. Nobody was at the desk except the sergeant, and he was having a
nap, with his shoes off. He wasn't too happy when I woke him up.

"Bill Marra's been kidnapped," I said.

"How's that?" he yawned.

"Well," I started. "He invented a gadget to talk to horses and--"

"For a minute I almost took you serious," the sergeant said. "Every
time there's a murder in town, some crackpot comes in here and
confesses he done it. We have a show on Broadway, 'Who Killed Cock
Robin,' some jerk comes in, says he's the guy. Now there's a movie, 'My
Brother Talks With Horses,' you say he's been kidnapped. You just stop
smoking that stuff, you'll be O.K. And if I find out where you get it,
I'll--"

"Look, I'm no crackpot. I built the gadget for him."

"That's all, brother. Now I've heard everything. Go away and leave me
rest."

"Wait a minute," I squawked. "Lucky Mariano and--"

The sergeant sat up abruptly. "Did you say Lucky Mariano?"

"Yes, Lucky Mariano," I insisted. "He and Bill--"

"Hold it." The sergeant was wide awake now. "On him, we'd like to get
something. Tell me from the beginning."

I told him. He looked skeptical enough, but he couldn't laugh off my
description of Mariano. "Fits all right. Those neckties of his. But how
do you know he kidnapped Bill Marra? Sounds like he just hired him and
Bill went of his own free will. Far as I know, there's no law against
talking to horses, not even if Mariano does it. That is, if your pal
really can talk with horses, and that still goes down pretty hard."

"Well, Mariano believes it." I was mad now. "But what are you going to
do about Bill?"

"Can't see nothin' we can do about Bill. Bring us some evidence of a
snatch, maybe the FBI can do something."

I left. I wanted to punch that big lug right in the jaw, but punching
police sergeants, especially in headquarters, is not good policy. The
law frowns upon it. I went back to the shop and tried to do some heavy
thinking. It came out all wrong. I didn't know where Bill was. I'm no
detective. I've got no gun permit. I weigh one hundred and twenty-four
pounds, dripping wet and a rock in each hand. In short, blanked.

Opportunity knocked. He didn't look like opportunity, for the moment.
He looked like one of Lucky Mariano's less lovable gunsters. But he was
carrying Bill's gadget, and he had a note from Bill. It was short and
to the point:

"Something's popped. Probably a condenser or a resistor. Fix it and
send it back with the boy. He'll wait."

Well, I fumbled with it and tried to read some meaning or code into the
note. But it was pretty clear there wasn't any, and anyway, Bill's mind
doesn't run that way. Still, by the handwriting, I could see he was
pretty nervous, and I had a mental picture of those hoodlums trying to
figure whether the gimmick was really busted or whether he was stalling.

I hooked up the test set, and found the trouble in about two minutes.
Watching my guest out of the corner of my eye, I kept on testing,
stalling for time. Finally I got it.

"Look, pal, she's pretty well shot. I've got to put in some new coils
and rewire a whole sub-assembly."

I looked at the mug nervously. He shifted his cud of gum around his
jaw, first from left to right, then vice versa, yawned, and said, "Go
ahead, bub. I can wait. I'll stay till you finish. Just don't make any
phone calls."

       *       *       *       *       *

Lucky I had a couple of old police radio-telephones handy. I got the
parts I needed out of one of them, and got to work. Three hours later
it was done, and the tough guy left with it. I left, five minutes after
he did.

Same sergeant, same desk, same police Headquarters. He looked at me,
sour-like.

"You back again? What's the horses telling you now?"

"Nothing much," I came back at him. "But they'll be talking to you
pretty soon. Something new has been added."

"What's that?"

I told him about my visitor and the repair job. "What I did was add a
modulator-oscillator-power amplifier, and a few feet of wire for an
antenna, coiled around inside the case."

"So what does that make it?"

"Simple. It makes it a radio transmitter. Not only will he hear what
the horses are saying, but anyone in town with a radio tuned to that
frequency will, too."

"And where does that get you?" The sergeant was still puzzled but not
bored now.

"Well, I took the filter off the mike too. So not only will it
broadcast the horse-talk, but anything else that's said around the room
as well. Also, I fixed the switch so it shuts off the speaker, while
the rest of it keeps running. It'll broadcast all their conversations
while they think it's shut off."

"Yeah, but--" The sergeant acted like a professor putting his finger on
the nub of a problem. "But who is going to be listening?"

"Oh." Now it was my turn. "That's easy, I tuned the whole thing to
police frequency. Every radio-patrol car in town will hear it."

"Dangerous for Marra if they find out, isn't it?" the sergeant mused.

"That's your job, now." I was getting mad again. "He's entitled to some
police protection, isn't he?"

A cop came in from the hall, picked up the desk phone and dialed a
number. "Repair? Send the direction-finder car around. Some'uns jamming
our radio."

I grabbed the sergeant and dragged him to the radio room. In between
crashes of static and puzzled calls from the two-way radio cars, there
was a hum of voices. I recognized Mariano's and Bill's talking to a
horse and the horse answering in what sounded like Portuguese. Bill was
translating, and Mariano was giving Bill questions to try on the horse.

"Believe me now?" I asked the sergeant, who was scratching his head
with one finger at a time.

"Beats the bejudus out of me," he said. "That's Mariano, all right.
Maybe--"

"Okay then, let's go!"

"Where?"

The sergeant had me there for a minute. Obviously Mariano and Bill were
at the track now; just as obviously, they'd beat it, soon as they got
their information. They'd place their bets by phone, later. But where?

"I've got it! Catch that direction-finder car when it gets here. That
gimmick'll go on broadcasting wherever they take it. We'll chase 'em
with the direction-finder."

"Mebbe you got somethin'." The sergeant snapped a few words into the
intercom box, and we walked out in front of the police station. The
service car pulled up about five minutes later, and we hopped in. I
looked over the equipment.

"Pretty sharp, that," I remarked. "Haven't seen one of those since I
was in the Air Force."

"Yeah," said the driver. "Automatic radio compass. Beats the old
fashioned loop aerial direction-finder all hollow. All I've gotta do is
watch the Left-Right indicator while I drive."

I started to do a bit of figuring. There were three of us in the
car--the sergeant, the driver, and myself. Suppose we catch Mariano,
then what? He isn't going to be alone, that's sure, and even alone,
he's dangerous. And the other gimmick, the one I hadn't mentioned to
the sergeant, it didn't seem to be working--yet.

"Dang!" muttered the driver, under his breath, and swung the car
around. "Either we've passed them, or they've passed us on the way back
to town."

The direction indicator had started to call its left and rights wrong.
Now, headed back to town, it was swinging properly again. It didn't
make sense to me. Unless Mariano had taken a plane, he couldn't have
gotten past us that way. No cars had gone by in the opposite direction
in ten minutes. Suddenly I got an idea. I snapped on the loudspeaker.

"Calling car 25. Car 25. Signal 34. Signal 34. Main and Broadway. Main
and Broadway."

"I knew it. I should've thought of that. The gadget's on the same
frequency as the police calls. We're chasing Police Headquarters now,
not Mariano!" I shouted disgustedly.

"Okay, wise guy. This was your idea. What do we do now?" said the
sergeant.

"We wait. And we keep the loudspeaker turned on. And we chase Mariano
with the radio compass when we hear him."

       *       *       *       *       *

Pretty soon we got another signal from Bill's gadget. The radio compass
swung back and forth, finally settled down and made sense as we headed
out of town again. I kept my ear peeled to the radio and my fingers
crossed.

It's Mariano's voice in the loudspeaker now. Getting clearer so I
figure we're getting warm.

"Okay, Marra. All I need. Shut it off and get into the car.... I said
shut it off; that whistle is driving me nuts."

"What whistle?" It was Bill's voice.

"That damned peanut whistle coming from your gimmick," Mariano's voice
was getting exasperated now.

"Nothing coming out of this that I can hear. Besides, it's shut off.
Look for yourself."

"You're trying to tell me I'm nuts?" Mariano's voice was dangerous,
tight, low-pitched. "I hear it. And if you don't stop it, I'll--"

Well, it seems the other gimmick is working, better than I figured.
Maybe it'll be Bill's finish too, if we don't get there soon. Seems
like I kind of underestimated it, though Mariano's voice comes through
again.

"For the last time, Marra, stop it. Look, I can't even move my hands.
That sound's doing things to me, I tell you--" Mariano's voice had
changed; he was whining now.

"I'm telling you, the thing _is_ shut off. There's only one switch
on it, and the pointer says, 'off'. Besides, I don't hear a thing. You
must have rocks in your head."

My jaw dropped. The big tough Mariano, licked by a little peanut
whistle. Bill, the Milquetoast genius, talking to the toughest gangster
in town like that. Maybe I don't know as much about the ultrasonics as
I should. I got nervous.

"What's your signal strength?" I asked the driver.

"R-9" he snapped. "We're getting pretty close now. Watch that bend in
the road."

We tore into the bend, screamed back into the straightaway. Dead ahead
was a big black limousine, with slots where the rear window should have
been. I'd never seen it before, but I didn't have to. It was Mariano's
armored special. J. Edgar Hoover would've been green with envy.

"Okay, Sarge. There they are. Your show now."

"Right." The sergeant fingered his .38 Police Positive. It was all the
armament we had, and not half enough, the way I felt.

"All right, Bobby." The sergeant was the professional cop now, and he
knew his business. "Pull ahead of them, and I'll wave 'em off the road."

The mechanic was a little green around the chops but he had spunk. He
kicked the accelerator pedal hard, pulled around Mariano's car, and
held his pace. The sergeant waved.

Mariano's driver tried to pull ahead, but Bobby could drive a bit, too.
He hit the gas and nosed over. Mariano's chauffeur could chance us or
the ditch. He made up his mind suddenly and stomped on the brake. We
screeched to a stop and the sergeant hopped out with the gun in his
hand.

"Out, bum!" he snapped at the driver. The driver knew a .38 when he saw
one. He hopped. The sergeant handcuffed him and shoved him into the
radio car.

"Yours, Bobby. Take him back to town and jug him. The boys'll get
something on him later. We'll ride back in Mariano's car."

The sergeant slipped into the driver's seat, with Bill alongside of
him. I got in back with Mariano. Mariano cringed in the far left corner
of the seat, which didn't make me mad, either. The more space between
us, the better.

I looked at him and the gadget. Bill spoke up from the front seat.
"What's eating him?" he said, to nobody in particular. "He started to
complain about a sort of peanut whistle, and now he acts like he wants
to crawl in a hole and pull the hole in after him."

"I cannot tell a lie," I said. "I did it, with my little hatchet. You
know, the mixer-oscillator in there--your idea to make the ultrasonic
frequencies audible?"

"Yeah, well?"

"Well, to get an audible beat, it has to be tuned within a couple of
kc. of the ultrasonic frequencies you want to beat with it. I set it at
14,000 cycles."

"What's that got to do with Mariano?"

"Well, it struck me funny that he'd swallow your gimmick and the idea
of talking with horses. Mariano's a suspicious type, and you'd expect
him to think it was a racket of some kind."

The sergeant cut in. "Yeah, that's how I figured it. I couldn't see the
whole thing myself, at first, and I couldn't figure Mariano falling for
it so easy."

"Well, you know, most people can't hear a thing above ten or eleven
thousand cycles. But occasionally you get someone who can hear all the
way to fifteen or sixteen thousand. I figured Mariano's one of them. He
must've heard horse-talk, but he's no good at languages and couldn't
figure what they were saying. That's what he needed Bill for."

"Okay, now I believe anything. I'll be seeing flying saucers next. But
what's this peanut whistle that shrivels him up so? I don't hear any
whistle."

"Right. You don't, I don't and Bill doesn't. But Mariano does. It's
the oscillator. I fed some of the 14,000 cycle output into a one-inch
permanent magnet speaker. There was more kick to it than I figured,
that's all."

Mariano looked at me, pleadingly. "Shut it off, mister. I'll confess to
anything, even kidnapping Judge Crater. Only stop that whistle!"

I felt sorry for the big lug. I reached into the box and yanked out the
"B" battery. Mariano shuddered and straightened up. He reached for his
pocket. That dim-witted sergeant had forgotten to frisk him.

Mariano leaned forward with an Army .45 in his hand. He stuck it in the
sergeant's neck. "Now, wise guy, turn around and head for the country.
I'll take care of you and your scientific pals all together!"

Mariano was watching the sergeant. The cop did some quick thinking and
suddenly swerved the car. The spin threw Mariano off balance for a
second. In that second, I realized that I still had the "B" battery in
my hand. I conked Mariano on the head with three pounds of zinc, carbon
and asphalt. It did the job very nicely. First time, in fact, that a
guy ever was knocked cold with only sixty-seven and one-half volts.
Though I have to admit, not applied in the usual way.

By the time he came to, we had him in a cell. We never did get him
on the kidnaping, as it happens; we didn't have much proof of that,
and Bill didn't feel like testifying. So they held him as a vagrant
while the FBI looked him up, and they found he could be sent to jail
for having a poor memory. He'd kept on forgetting that March fifteen
is income tax day. He can take a correspondence course in mnemonics at
Atlanta.

Anyway, I took the whistle and the police transmitter out of Bill's
gadget and gave it back to him. I was still puzzled about one thing.

Bill was idly thumbing a roll of bills big enough to make Rockefeller
envious.

"How come," I said, "that you didn't holler for help right away?"

"Four-thousand, forty-five hundred, forty-six hundred, forty-seven
hundred--huh? Oh. Why should I? I was doing okay. Making a nice bit of
change on side bets with Mariano."

"You mean--" I sputtered. "You mean, you were betting on horses with
Mariano? And winning?"

"Why not?" said Bill. "I was translating, wasn't I?"

*** END OF THE PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK REVERSE ENGLISH ***

Updated editions will replace the previous one--the old editions will
be renamed.

Creating the works from print editions not protected by U.S. copyright
law means that no one owns a United States copyright in these works,
so the Foundation (and you!) can copy and distribute it in the
United States without permission and without paying copyright
royalties. Special rules, set forth in the General Terms of Use part
of this license, apply to copying and distributing Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works to protect the PROJECT GUTENBERG-tm
concept and trademark. Project Gutenberg is a registered trademark,
and may not be used if you charge for an eBook, except by following
the terms of the trademark license, including paying royalties for use
of the Project Gutenberg trademark. If you do not charge anything for
copies of this eBook, complying with the trademark license is very
easy. You may use this eBook for nearly any purpose such as creation
of derivative works, reports, performances and research. Project
Gutenberg eBooks may be modified and printed and given away--you may
do practically ANYTHING in the United States with eBooks not protected
by U.S. copyright law. Redistribution is subject to the trademark
license, especially commercial redistribution.

START: FULL LICENSE

THE FULL PROJECT GUTENBERG LICENSE
PLEASE READ THIS BEFORE YOU DISTRIBUTE OR USE THIS WORK

To protect the Project Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting the free
distribution of electronic works, by using or distributing this work
(or any other work associated in any way with the phrase "Project
Gutenberg"), you agree to comply with all the terms of the Full
Project Gutenberg-tm License available with this file or online at
www.gutenberg.org/license.

Section 1. General Terms of Use and Redistributing Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works

1.A. By reading or using any part of this Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic work, you indicate that you have read, understand, agree to
and accept all the terms of this license and intellectual property
(trademark/copyright) agreement. If you do not agree to abide by all
the terms of this agreement, you must cease using and return or
destroy all copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in your
possession. If you paid a fee for obtaining a copy of or access to a
Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work and you do not agree to be bound
by the terms of this agreement, you may obtain a refund from the
person or entity to whom you paid the fee as set forth in paragraph
1.E.8.

1.B. "Project Gutenberg" is a registered trademark. It may only be
used on or associated in any way with an electronic work by people who
agree to be bound by the terms of this agreement. There are a few
things that you can do with most Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works
even without complying with the full terms of this agreement. See
paragraph 1.C below. There are a lot of things you can do with Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works if you follow the terms of this
agreement and help preserve free future access to Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works. See paragraph 1.E below.

1.C. The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation ("the
Foundation" or PGLAF), owns a compilation copyright in the collection
of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works. Nearly all the individual
works in the collection are in the public domain in the United
States. If an individual work is unprotected by copyright law in the
United States and you are located in the United States, we do not
claim a right to prevent you from copying, distributing, performing,
displaying or creating derivative works based on the work as long as
all references to Project Gutenberg are removed. Of course, we hope
that you will support the Project Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting
free access to electronic works by freely sharing Project Gutenberg-tm
works in compliance with the terms of this agreement for keeping the
Project Gutenberg-tm name associated with the work. You can easily
comply with the terms of this agreement by keeping this work in the
same format with its attached full Project Gutenberg-tm License when
you share it without charge with others.

1.D. The copyright laws of the place where you are located also govern
what you can do with this work. Copyright laws in most countries are
in a constant state of change. If you are outside the United States,
check the laws of your country in addition to the terms of this
agreement before downloading, copying, displaying, performing,
distributing or creating derivative works based on this work or any
other Project Gutenberg-tm work. The Foundation makes no
representations concerning the copyright status of any work in any
country other than the United States.

1.E. Unless you have removed all references to Project Gutenberg:

1.E.1. The following sentence, with active links to, or other
immediate access to, the full Project Gutenberg-tm License must appear
prominently whenever any copy of a Project Gutenberg-tm work (any work
on which the phrase "Project Gutenberg" appears, or with which the
phrase "Project Gutenberg" is associated) is accessed, displayed,
performed, viewed, copied or distributed:

  This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and
  most other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no
  restrictions whatsoever. You may copy it, give it away or re-use it
  under the terms of the Project Gutenberg License included with this
  eBook or online at www.gutenberg.org. If you are not located in the
  United States, you will have to check the laws of the country where
  you are located before using this eBook.

1.E.2. If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is
derived from texts not protected by U.S. copyright law (does not
contain a notice indicating that it is posted with permission of the
copyright holder), the work can be copied and distributed to anyone in
the United States without paying any fees or charges. If you are
redistributing or providing access to a work with the phrase "Project
Gutenberg" associated with or appearing on the work, you must comply
either with the requirements of paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 or
obtain permission for the use of the work and the Project Gutenberg-tm
trademark as set forth in paragraphs 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.3. If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is posted
with the permission of the copyright holder, your use and distribution
must comply with both paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 and any
additional terms imposed by the copyright holder. Additional terms
will be linked to the Project Gutenberg-tm License for all works
posted with the permission of the copyright holder found at the
beginning of this work.

1.E.4. Do not unlink or detach or remove the full Project Gutenberg-tm
License terms from this work, or any files containing a part of this
work or any other work associated with Project Gutenberg-tm.

1.E.5. Do not copy, display, perform, distribute or redistribute this
electronic work, or any part of this electronic work, without
prominently displaying the sentence set forth in paragraph 1.E.1 with
active links or immediate access to the full terms of the Project
Gutenberg-tm License.

1.E.6. You may convert to and distribute this work in any binary,
compressed, marked up, nonproprietary or proprietary form, including
any word processing or hypertext form. However, if you provide access
to or distribute copies of a Project Gutenberg-tm work in a format
other than "Plain Vanilla ASCII" or other format used in the official
version posted on the official Project Gutenberg-tm website
(www.gutenberg.org), you must, at no additional cost, fee or expense
to the user, provide a copy, a means of exporting a copy, or a means
of obtaining a copy upon request, of the work in its original "Plain
Vanilla ASCII" or other form. Any alternate format must include the
full Project Gutenberg-tm License as specified in paragraph 1.E.1.

1.E.7. Do not charge a fee for access to, viewing, displaying,
performing, copying or distributing any Project Gutenberg-tm works
unless you comply with paragraph 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.8. You may charge a reasonable fee for copies of or providing
access to or distributing Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works
provided that:

* You pay a royalty fee of 20% of the gross profits you derive from
  the use of Project Gutenberg-tm works calculated using the method
  you already use to calculate your applicable taxes. The fee is owed
  to the owner of the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark, but he has
  agreed to donate royalties under this paragraph to the Project
  Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation. Royalty payments must be paid
  within 60 days following each date on which you prepare (or are
  legally required to prepare) your periodic tax returns. Royalty
  payments should be clearly marked as such and sent to the Project
  Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation at the address specified in
  Section 4, "Information about donations to the Project Gutenberg
  Literary Archive Foundation."

* You provide a full refund of any money paid by a user who notifies
  you in writing (or by e-mail) within 30 days of receipt that s/he
  does not agree to the terms of the full Project Gutenberg-tm
  License. You must require such a user to return or destroy all
  copies of the works possessed in a physical medium and discontinue
  all use of and all access to other copies of Project Gutenberg-tm
  works.

* You provide, in accordance with paragraph 1.F.3, a full refund of
  any money paid for a work or a replacement copy, if a defect in the
  electronic work is discovered and reported to you within 90 days of
  receipt of the work.

* You comply with all other terms of this agreement for free
  distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm works.

1.E.9. If you wish to charge a fee or distribute a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work or group of works on different terms than
are set forth in this agreement, you must obtain permission in writing
from the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the manager of
the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark. Contact the Foundation as set
forth in Section 3 below.

1.F.

1.F.1. Project Gutenberg volunteers and employees expend considerable
effort to identify, do copyright research on, transcribe and proofread
works not protected by U.S. copyright law in creating the Project
Gutenberg-tm collection. Despite these efforts, Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works, and the medium on which they may be stored, may
contain "Defects," such as, but not limited to, incomplete, inaccurate
or corrupt data, transcription errors, a copyright or other
intellectual property infringement, a defective or damaged disk or
other medium, a computer virus, or computer codes that damage or
cannot be read by your equipment.

1.F.2. LIMITED WARRANTY, DISCLAIMER OF DAMAGES - Except for the "Right
of Replacement or Refund" described in paragraph 1.F.3, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the owner of the Project
Gutenberg-tm trademark, and any other party distributing a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work under this agreement, disclaim all
liability to you for damages, costs and expenses, including legal
fees. YOU AGREE THAT YOU HAVE NO REMEDIES FOR NEGLIGENCE, STRICT
LIABILITY, BREACH OF WARRANTY OR BREACH OF CONTRACT EXCEPT THOSE
PROVIDED IN PARAGRAPH 1.F.3. YOU AGREE THAT THE FOUNDATION, THE
TRADEMARK OWNER, AND ANY DISTRIBUTOR UNDER THIS AGREEMENT WILL NOT BE
LIABLE TO YOU FOR ACTUAL, DIRECT, INDIRECT, CONSEQUENTIAL, PUNITIVE OR
INCIDENTAL DAMAGES EVEN IF YOU GIVE NOTICE OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH
DAMAGE.

1.F.3. LIMITED RIGHT OF REPLACEMENT OR REFUND - If you discover a
defect in this electronic work within 90 days of receiving it, you can
receive a refund of the money (if any) you paid for it by sending a
written explanation to the person you received the work from. If you
received the work on a physical medium, you must return the medium
with your written explanation. The person or entity that provided you
with the defective work may elect to provide a replacement copy in
lieu of a refund. If you received the work electronically, the person
or entity providing it to you may choose to give you a second
opportunity to receive the work electronically in lieu of a refund. If
the second copy is also defective, you may demand a refund in writing
without further opportunities to fix the problem.

1.F.4. Except for the limited right of replacement or refund set forth
in paragraph 1.F.3, this work is provided to you 'AS-IS', WITH NO
OTHER WARRANTIES OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT
LIMITED TO WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY OR FITNESS FOR ANY PURPOSE.

1.F.5. Some states do not allow disclaimers of certain implied
warranties or the exclusion or limitation of certain types of
damages. If any disclaimer or limitation set forth in this agreement
violates the law of the state applicable to this agreement, the
agreement shall be interpreted to make the maximum disclaimer or
limitation permitted by the applicable state law. The invalidity or
unenforceability of any provision of this agreement shall not void the
remaining provisions.

1.F.6. INDEMNITY - You agree to indemnify and hold the Foundation, the
trademark owner, any agent or employee of the Foundation, anyone
providing copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in
accordance with this agreement, and any volunteers associated with the
production, promotion and distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works, harmless from all liability, costs and expenses,
including legal fees, that arise directly or indirectly from any of
the following which you do or cause to occur: (a) distribution of this
or any Project Gutenberg-tm work, (b) alteration, modification, or
additions or deletions to any Project Gutenberg-tm work, and (c) any
Defect you cause.

Section 2. Information about the Mission of Project Gutenberg-tm

Project Gutenberg-tm is synonymous with the free distribution of
electronic works in formats readable by the widest variety of
computers including obsolete, old, middle-aged and new computers. It
exists because of the efforts of hundreds of volunteers and donations
from people in all walks of life.

Volunteers and financial support to provide volunteers with the
assistance they need are critical to reaching Project Gutenberg-tm's
goals and ensuring that the Project Gutenberg-tm collection will
remain freely available for generations to come. In 2001, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation was created to provide a secure
and permanent future for Project Gutenberg-tm and future
generations. To learn more about the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation and how your efforts and donations can help, see
Sections 3 and 4 and the Foundation information page at
www.gutenberg.org

Section 3. Information about the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation

The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation is a non-profit
501(c)(3) educational corporation organized under the laws of the
state of Mississippi and granted tax exempt status by the Internal
Revenue Service. The Foundation's EIN or federal tax identification
number is 64-6221541. Contributions to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation are tax deductible to the full extent permitted by
U.S. federal laws and your state's laws.

The Foundation's business office is located at 809 North 1500 West,
Salt Lake City, UT 84116, (801) 596-1887. Email contact links and up
to date contact information can be found at the Foundation's website
and official page at www.gutenberg.org/contact

Section 4. Information about Donations to the Project Gutenberg
Literary Archive Foundation

Project Gutenberg-tm depends upon and cannot survive without
widespread public support and donations to carry out its mission of
increasing the number of public domain and licensed works that can be
freely distributed in machine-readable form accessible by the widest
array of equipment including outdated equipment. Many small donations
($1 to $5,000) are particularly important to maintaining tax exempt
status with the IRS.

The Foundation is committed to complying with the laws regulating
charities and charitable donations in all 50 states of the United
States. Compliance requirements are not uniform and it takes a
considerable effort, much paperwork and many fees to meet and keep up
with these requirements. We do not solicit donations in locations
where we have not received written confirmation of compliance. To SEND
DONATIONS or determine the status of compliance for any particular
state visit www.gutenberg.org/donate

While we cannot and do not solicit contributions from states where we
have not met the solicitation requirements, we know of no prohibition
against accepting unsolicited donations from donors in such states who
approach us with offers to donate.

International donations are gratefully accepted, but we cannot make
any statements concerning tax treatment of donations received from
outside the United States. U.S. laws alone swamp our small staff.

Please check the Project Gutenberg web pages for current donation
methods and addresses. Donations are accepted in a number of other
ways including checks, online payments and credit card donations. To
donate, please visit: www.gutenberg.org/donate

Section 5. General Information About Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works

Professor Michael S. Hart was the originator of the Project
Gutenberg-tm concept of a library of electronic works that could be
freely shared with anyone. For forty years, he produced and
distributed Project Gutenberg-tm eBooks with only a loose network of
volunteer support.

Project Gutenberg-tm eBooks are often created from several printed
editions, all of which are confirmed as not protected by copyright in
the U.S. unless a copyright notice is included. Thus, we do not
necessarily keep eBooks in compliance with any particular paper
edition.

Most people start at our website which has the main PG search
facility: www.gutenberg.org

This website includes information about Project Gutenberg-tm,
including how to make donations to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation, how to help produce our new eBooks, and how to
subscribe to our email newsletter to hear about new eBooks.
